Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, this is not a very pleasant matter to talk
about, but it's a very important one.
And I think it's one that people ought to have information about.
That is, in the case of a nuclear attack or an old-out war, what will happen to our civilian
population?
What kind of civilian defense do we have?
Back about 10 or 12 years ago, as chairman of a subcommittee of the Armed Services Committee
in the Senate, I guided through the first Civil Defense Act.
Since that time, we have seen many developments and a good deal has been done in the Civil
Defense way.
And I think that people, while they may not be interested, they don't like to think about
civil defense particularly.
This is a problem that they should have the most accurate and up-to-date information
concerning because we never know what may unfortunately happen.
Today we have is our guest, Stuart L. Pittman, who is the Assistant Secretary of Defense
for Civil Defense.
And he is running the show at the federal level, coordinating or attempting to coordinate
the activities throughout the country.
And we appreciate having you here, Secretary Pittman, to talk with the listeners and viewers
of this station about the all-important matter of civil defense.
Delighted to be here, Senator.
Now, in the first place, of course, you are a Assistant Secretary of Defense.
But is this a federal problem entirely?
Or is it not, if we are going to be successful, I like the local aspects of it?
Well, on the way, we picture a nuclear attack in the years ahead of heavy nuclear attack.
It seems quite clear that each community has to be prepared to stand on its own feet
for a matter of perhaps weeks, and they cannot be sure about side-help.
So it's clearly a local problem.
And then, of course, the federal government does play a role in trying to coordinate the
effort and help where you can, but it is a largely a local problem.
If it should ever happen, it would be very much a local problem, but in the preparations
the federal government must support state and local efforts very heavily.
Well, Stewart, how much has the President asked for this year for civil defense and
the budget?
Well, our request for fiscal year 1964 is 300 million.
It's less than was asked for last year, but a video more than we got last year.
How much did you get last year, and how much was spent on civil defense last year?
Last year, our appropriation was 113 million, and we are requesting a supplemental, which
would increase that to 175 million for this current fiscal year.
Well, civil defense is an overall part of our defense program, is it not?
It's very much so.
And our overall defense program, I think, the budget this year is something like a 60-year
request for appropriation is something like 60 billion dollars.
It's 52.
It turns out to be 6 tenths of 1 percent of the total defense budget that we are requesting
for civil defense.
I see.
Well, one second here, and McNamara requested in the way of civil defense legislation.
He's requesting legislation, which would permit us to start on the second leg of this
program.
We found a shellerspace for over 100 million people.
It already exists.
No money need be spent on the structure.
It simply has to be stock now, that's not enough to take care of the population with
minimal shellers protection.
We need it far too to put some money into selected buildings in communities to create additional
shellerspace, which would protect people against fallout radiation.
You mean, at present time you found some kind of shellerspace for about 100 million of
our 180 million population.
Is that right?
But how about supplies, medicine, food, water, things of that sort?
As you have mentioned in an including radiation detection instruments, it's going into each
of the shellers that have been found to be acceptable in this survey, which we have just
completed, and they would also go into the new shellerspace created by the program we're
asking for.
Well, there's been a argument that's been raging for some time about the best way to save
lives in case of nuclear attack.
Some have said that shellers in our big cities offer the best opportunity of being protected
against fallout.
Others have argued that we ought to evacuate our cities in the event of a warning of a
nuclear attack, get out in the country and the countryside.
What has been resolved about that?
What should people do?
Well, the one big change in civil defense planning over the last few years has been a shift
away from the idea of evacuation towards a take cover approach to the problem.
This is largely because of the fallout radiation hazard we anticipate that under a heavy nuclear
attack it would reach most of the country so there would be no place to run to.
Unless you had a sheller at the end of your journey, you'd better stay where you are and
take advantage of the massive building materials that are near where you live if you live
in a city.
Certainly it would be better to take advantage of that protection than to run out into
the country where you'd be exposed to fallout radiation.
I mean, you're just the exposed value where running out and then you'd have to have somewhere
to go to then after you evacuate it.
Well, aside from the war threat during the Cuban crisis, it doesn't seem to me that there's
been very much and certainly not sufficient interest in civil defense.
Is that right and what should be done about it?
Well, I think that is generally right, Senator.
The Cuban experience, however, did demonstrate clearly to the leadership in this country.
I mean, local public and private leadership, not just the federal government, that people
faced with a real crisis are deeply concerned about their chances of survival and a place
to go to take their families that would give them some protection so that I don't think
there's as much speculation as there was about whether people really want this.
I think it's clear that an emergency they want it.
It's also clear that between emergencies they're not going to think about it deeply and
involve themselves emotionally in the problem.
I think this is all right.
I think it's up to the leadership to do the planning and the general public has a responsibility
to understand the problem, but need not do extravagant and extraordinary things day-to-day
basis.
That's not necessary.
Well, Secretary Pitman, if you were living in a suburb of the city, or if you're living
in a small town, a nuclear attack came, what should people do?
What would you recommend that they do?
Well, of course, anything you can do at the last minute is negligible compared to what
you could do if you faced the problem a little ahead of time.
Every family in the suburb or anywhere else should have some idea of the best protection
against a four-out radiation, which is the most predictable of the hazards that would
take place.
That means a pick out of place which might be a basement in your home, it might be a large
building nearby.
If you don't have any place that offers any kind of protection, consideration should
be given to a home shelter, and we have designs that have been published to show how this
can be done at very low cost or $150 if you do a little work yourself with a shelter
in your basement or backyard.
This kind of preparation is taken.
Then you can build a family plan, a community plan that makes some sense.
These things haven't been done.
It's a very difficult thing to advise people what to do during an emergency.
Of course, the best thing to do is to try to get acquainted with the location of the facilities
of some good shelter or well-provisioned that's already been built that you could get to.
In Nashville, for example, in your state, we have found Shellerspace to take care of
the entire population.
In Memphis, there's enough to take care of about half the population.
So it varies from city to city.
This is not evident.
It hasn't come to the surface.
It hasn't all been marked so that people don't see this, but this is a reality in over
this coming year.
It will be stocked in marks and there will be plans as to how people will use it.
People will know living in various sections of Nashville where they are supposed to go
and what the shelter is available to them.
Yes, you have a very able state director and criminal fox who is working on plans to
strut people.
Yes, I know.
He's got a lot of very able directors in our various cities and towns.
When I take out state of Tennessee by the population of three million, 600,000 as an example, what
facts have your studies revealed about civil events?
How many shelter facilities are there?
The number of spaces and what's the supply?
The status of the supply of food and water and other things that people must have.
The number of spaces that we've found in this nationwide survey in Tennessee are about
one point space to take care of, about 1.6 million people.
That's about 45% of the state population.
The survey has also revealed that simply by adding ventilation and basements, it's been
increased the capacity of the shelter space in these larger buildings to about 2.4 million
people, which means that about 70% of the population could be taken care of.
That's a 50% increase.
This costs some money.
The national average costs and the ventilation is around $11 per person.
Sheldart, those institutions that are eligible under this proposed financing program that
I mentioned earlier, which we're presenting to Congress, could have federal funds which
would meet this cost.
These include all nonprofit institution schools and hospitals and public buildings.
It does not include industrial commercial establishments.
What part is the TVA played in civil defense planning?
The TVA has taken a very active interest in this and done what all federal agencies should
be doing, which is to demonstrate some leadership.
They have gone ahead and marked and equipped their buildings, which offer some possibility
of community shelter space.
They've also taken measures to assure continuity of the power system and so far as this can
be done.
In their own buildings or installations do they have civil defense, do they have
shoulders?
Yes.
They have identified the buildings and moving in supplies and developing plans to use them.
I suppose having a power facility in the event of a attack is very important too.
It's of course vital.
It's a very difficult subject as to how to switch power around from one station to another
to restore services rapidly as possible.
We're doing a lot of research on this.
We're optimistic that a good part of the country would have power.
Of course there would be important parts of the country that would be without power.
Well, Stuart briefly, because you give us an example of a program supporting civil defense,
which has been undertaken in the volunteer state in Tennessee.
Of course, the, you mean perhaps these prototype shelters that...
Well, I just know any, perhaps though, or any program that's been commissioned.
I could.
I could describe one community, which we've done some work with.
They've asked us to keep this quiet for the time being because they're not sure what
they're going to do.
But an analysis has been made as to the shoulder space in the community and what they could
do to survive under fallout conditions.
And the result has been to generate enthusiasm and acidic committee to...
Well, Stuart, sorry, we'll have to talk about that some other time.
Well, thank you very much, Stuart Pittman, for coming and being with us until the next
program is over.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, during the past two weeks, this Congress,
which is now in session, has...
It's commenced to be known as the first of the space age.
And I think that that is a true and a correct designation.
Well, the things that we do in this Congress and the things that are done in the government
are during this year.
We'll have a whole lot to do with our future, whether we're successful in the space age
or whether we're not.
As soon as the President's new budget came to the Congress, there was a great deal of
talk calling it the first budget for the space age.
And I suppose it was.
The budget was for almost $75 billion, the highest in the peacetime history of the United
States.
Is this a budget sufficient to do the research to make the missiles to have the weapons
for the protection of the United States and also to catch up with the Soviet Union and
the development of the development of this space age?
So these questions cannot be in a quick immediate answer.
It depends, of course, on how much other expenses can be cut down, on how much can be saved
by cutting red tape and having better organization in the Pentagon, which are a preparedness subcommittee
of which I'm a member has been working on holding hearings every day since almost the
first of November.
The military budget is up considerably, some $2.5 billion over what it was last year.
And I think some substantial increase in the military budget is necessary and is justified.
It was a concern to me to note right after the President set up his budget that there
was a suggestion from Dr. Alan T. Waterman, the Director of the National Science Foundation
that the funds requested for basic research had been substantially cut in the budget
that is now before.
So the question is, should we have more basic research and perhaps cut down on some other
things?
One thing we can be quite sure about, and that is that we get, have to give greater
importance to basic research.
I have here some models of some of the missiles that we have been hearing about and they
prepared a subcommittee.
This short one is Army Missile.
It can be transported by truck.
Here's a short range Air Force Missile.
This is the Redstone Missile, which is made down at Huntsville, Alabama.
The larger missiles, the intermediate range missiles, which go 1500 miles, they are
hilarious.
The far and the Jupiter are not shown here because they deal with them parts of them
classified.
Although they also, the ICBMs, the Titan and the Atlas, which are supposed to go 5000
miles, they are not shown here.
But they bring to our attention the fact that we are living in an age where speed is
very great and where the space above the Earth and around the planets is going to be an
increasing interest to all of us as we go on.
The point that I want to make however is that all of these missiles would not have been
possible unless we had had basic research.
Too many people think of the scientists as a long-haired dreamer and impractical kind
of person.
And everybody is of the opinion that if we are going to catch up in the United States,
we must treat our scientists better, pay them more respect, and know the importance of
the work that they are doing.
Hundreds of years ago, one of these so-called dreamers was named Isaac Newton.
He wanted to know what makes the rock fall when you throw it up.
He developed a theory of gravity, and today every high school boy and girl of course knows
about Newton's laws of gravity.
If it hadn't been for his curiosity and of those who followed after him, then these missiles
never would have been possible because it's the law of gravity that has a whole lot to
do but how we are going to be able to enter into conquer and find out about space.
And how our scientists today are going to be able to compete successfully in this space
age.
So that all of us in Washington are determined that we are going to give basic research
that will enable us to hold our own in this important new age, efficient funds and attention
that it deserves.
You will be hearing a great deal about that from the executive and from the halls of Congress
and the days to come.
That's all for now.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, Friends of Tennessee.
I'm very happy to have this opportunity of being back on this station and to again have
the opportunity of bringing you a short report about what is going on in the nation's capital
here in Washington.
The time for these broadcasts is being made as a public service.
I'm very grateful to this station.
As in the past I will try to make the broadcast a non-political infection.
It will be my effort to keep you, my friends and my constituents and constituents in Tennessee
advised about what I am doing and about what the Congress is doing.
The value of these broadcasts will be increased and the value of you and to me if we make it
on a two-way basis.
In other words, I would appreciate your comments, your suggestions, your recommendations,
that's what you think is right and what you think is wrong for the various programs that
we have before.
Representative government works best when the people speak up and express themselves on
this program that are being considered.
There is no doubt that this Congress is convening in the time of great potential halibut.
Since my last such broadcast to you in August of last year, we have come into a new age
to, we have come into this space age.
As a nation we have been thoroughly shaken by the general knowledge and information that
we may not be ahead in this new age which has been inaugurated.
The Soviet Union has launched two sputniks since last October and our one effort to launch
a sputnik has so far better failure.
I think this is temporary and we are going to catch up, but we should not under-emphasize
in necessity.
For our nation to exert every effort to match and keep abreast in this world of science
and education and military potential.
I think that there is much work for this Congress to do and that this Congress means to
get down to real business and to do its part.
First and foremost we must regain our position or peace in the world.
This I believe is essential to our survival as a free nation.
This means that we must of course in the first place show off the defenses of our country
and this is going to cost us a lot of money.
So the first things we have to do is to catch up in the missile and satellite race and
in the effort to gain the control of space to at least get on an equal basis.
I think the reasons that we have gotten behind are not just the absence of the lack of money
but we haven't had the organization, we haven't had the responsibility, we haven't given
it enough emphasis for the government and among our people.
We must also inaugurate new and thoughtful policies and programs to regain the political
and the economic leadership among the peoples of the world particularly in the free world.
Furthermore I think we must take steps to see that our economy remains stable and vital
here in the United States itself.
Along with several other senators I joined in to introduction of legislation this week
which would alleviate some of the distress that has come to the small farmers and to the
people in West Tennessee particularly.
Whereas the result of the rain and the floods of last year they lost their crops and that
certainly they need secure loans in order to get that enable them to continue on as farmers
and continue on in our economy.
This Congress convened and moved to meet the problems of the day and this connection I think
with President Eisenhower stated the union message was the best address that he has made
during his career.
He had set forth general programs that most all Americans can agree with.
Most impressive was his expression of the peaceful intentions of the people of the United
States.
His emphasis on improved world trade, on economic assistance, on people to people contacts
but his vigorous call for disarmament.
The force will put plea for peace if followed up and implemented and fought for in the Congress
of the United States and do much to win back to us.
Many of the friends that we have lost during the last few years as a result of having no
policy are as a result of vacillating about what we are going to do.
I feel that the Congress will cooperate with the President in trying to get these things
done.
We will all work toward that end.
I will be back with you next week.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, the Preparedness Subcommittee of the United
States Senate of which Senator Lyndon Johnson is chairman and with seven or eight members
of Republicans and Democrats have just completed the hearings which were commenced shortly
after the launching of the first sputnik by the Soviet Union.
As Deputy Chairman of that committee, I am most regular attendant and a person who has
been tremendously interested in the work of the committee, is I are distinguished neighbor,
the senator from Mississippi, Senator John Stennis.
He is here today to talk with us about the whole missile program and about the work
of this Preparedness Subcommittee.
Certainly, I am glad to have you here, John.
Tell us what you think about the accomplishments of the committee.
Well, let's decide.
First want to say that I certainly enjoyed sitting by you during all these hearings where
we all had the benefit of your fine knowledge of national as well as international affairs.
We've sat in that work together.
I've been impressed tremendously by the fact that we have great military power now, our
feet of two long range bombers and other striking power.
I think we are superior now.
We could meet any threat that might be thrown at us.
Second, that within two or three years from now, unless we close the gap on this missile
program and catch up, we could well be a secondary military power and that means that
we have to take time, we wouldn't want to take it.
Now, in all these hearings, that's one of my points and all these hearings I'd just
like to ask you what some of their things impressed you so in an outstanding way.
Well, one thing I was impressed was, and that is that on Thursday at the conclusion of
the hearing, Senator Lyndon Johnson presented a statement which was agreed to unanimously
by all of the members of the committee.
That is, while things might have been different, different decisions have been made in years
passed by both Democratic and Republican administrations, we're not concerned about the task, but
where we are going to go from here.
And I felt that in the long range of ballistic missiles and also the intermediate ballistic
missiles, that the Soviet Union was ahead of us at present time, that we are ahead as far
as the air force is concerned, but they are increasing their rate.
Did you find that, do you think that's generally true?
Yes, I think that's generally true.
And another thing that impressed me was that even though our scientists are fine and outstanding,
that these Russians have made tremendous headway and they train more minds in that direction,
and therefore that contributes to a better system of concentrating and producing these
terrible weapons and missiles as well as others.
In other words, in our education that they have put more stress on scientists and physicists
and engineers than we have, and that if we're going to catch up and stay ahead by more
of our young people are going to have to have scientific education, then we're going
to have to look at scientists more and more friendly way, aren't we?
We're going to have to find that talent, yes, and look at them in a more friendly way
and an honest standing way and another thing.
Well, I wonder if you were impressed as I was, however, that since the beginning of the
hearings that we actually have made considerable progress in getting started.
Oh, yes, I've been throughout learning some of the things.
Well, I think we've made tremendous progress.
The Department of Defense has been eluded and they've stepped up our long-range missiles,
our intermediate range missiles as much as they possibly can.
They've taken off their overtime restrictions.
Now a satellite program is not a failure.
This Vanguard matter was just one experiment.
After all, that's not a failure by any means.
We are getting in motion on more front side.
I'm anxious that we step up our submarine program more and also step up their B-52 bombers
including that long-range, manless bomber that we have which is a missile itself.
Yes, and ladies and gentlemen, all of us on the committee and Senator Stenner's certainly
feel that while we want to catch up insofar as missiles and weapons and air force,
that eventually we want to try to work toward peace for the same determination that we are
working to prepare ourselves against any attack.
Certainly a pleasure to have Senator Stenner's Willis on this program.
We thank a lot of you.
Thank you, Senator.
I know.
I have to be with you.
That's all for now.
Goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, I want to talk with you today about a new problem
with which our generation is faced.
Mankind is on the very verge of what may prove to be the most dramatic breakthrough in history,
ranking even beyond the immense consequences of his discovery of the new world.
I'm speaking of course of the venture into outer space.
Soviet Union has sent two satellites orbiting around the earth.
We too are entering this into space with missiles and satellites.
The spaceship of science fiction, the space platforms are no longer wild figments of imagination.
Nationally this creates a whole new area of international problems sooner or later.
And I think it should be sooner during the infancy of this new age.
We will have to set up the rules by which there will be some regulation of the exploration
of outer space.
It would be a great shame perhaps mankind's greatest failure.
If man's wars and man's ills were extended to whatever area, he may eventually reach
in the far reaches of space.
Certainly we should be able to make up for many of our failures on the earth by coming
to firm agreements to explore and if possible to develop these new and ever-reaching frontiers
in peaceful cooperation and for peaceful ends.
Men have of course space problems not entirely disassembly before.
We have rules for the use of the high seas.
All nations have found these rules advantageous and follow them.
Despite the fact that modern weapons, navies and aircraft make possible extension of control
of adjacent high seas far beyond the accepted three mile limit of any nation's sovereignty.
Following the advent of the airplane, we extended by common national sovereignty, consent,
into space above all of our nations.
However as a practical matter, sovereignty as we know it can be extended only where it
can be enforced.
It is unlikely that there will ever be any means to control objects which move beyond
and around the earth's orbit.
The advantage is therefore of agreement on basic rules for a space exploration right now
before mankind is made such an adventure become very obvious.
It would be my hope that no one or three nations will make an effort to hog space through
the exclusion of all others.
I hope that many nations can approach the exploration of space cooperatively and that
nation and that small nations as well as large and powerful ones can have a share in this
endeavor.
Experience indicates that we are not going to be able to make agreements with the Soviet
Union which will establish peace in any one grand design.
I think the fact that we agreed upon the exchange of students and other peoples with the
Soviet Union just the other day showed that you can do it a piecemeal and little by
little.
I do believe that there are limited areas in which we can reach other agreements and this
is one in which we ought to try.
Let us make a sincere effort to obtain an agreement with the Soviet Union looking toward
the United Nations leadership and laying down the rules and conditions for exploration
of space, rules which will respect the right and hopes of the people of all nations.
The United Nations is the only body that I know of which could do this and if the UN had
nothing else to its credit and of course it has a great deal many things to its credit.
The opportunity and the challenge to perfect and maintain peaceful penetration and exploration
by man of outer space would be enough justification for its existence.
I hope that the administration will move boldly into this field.
I hope it makes known its desire to the Soviet Union and through the United States representative
to the nations of all of the world.
Of our desire not to control space but to share in its exploration and development with
all other nations under a body of international law.
I believe that this is something that should be done soon because sooner or later all
nations will be laying out this claim and that claim and there is bound to be a conflict
unless we do have some rules and regulations.
The United States by taking the lead I think could gain much respect and goodwill among
the people of the smaller nations of the earth.
Thank you and goodbye until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee.
I wanted to talk with you today about the current work in which I am engaged as chairman
of the Senate Committee on any trust and monopoly legislation.
Everyone with whom I talk these days is concerned greatly about the current business recession
and most certainly this is true in Tennessee where unemployment has been rising in the
cities and where the farmers who are using the hit first in these recessions and are suffering
real hardships.
Now along with Senators Eastland, Fulbright in Sammington, I have sponsored legislation designed
to loosen the tight credit restrictions on farmers so they can get back on their feet.
We have been partially successful thus far and we intend to keep on working at this until
we are fully successful.
We haven't had very much cooperation from the Secretary of Agriculture, Mr. Benson.
So this week we took our cause and presented it to the White House where we hope to get
a little better cooperation.
The situation is really bad in Tennessee particularly in the western part of the vomitting
state.
I am interested in proposals which will spur needed public improvement and thereby give
additional employment in the cities.
However these things we all admit are to the economy what a tough hill is to adopt.
They give you a boost but they neither diagnose, nor cure the underlying knowledge.
Our committee has been at work a long time, pains taking the trying to diagnose one part
of what we believe to be a fundamental topic.
What is or any trust laws really working in a way which will encourage full production,
full employment, full flowering of our productive pre-entipized economy.
Do they really encourage competition?
We examine this problem in one of our basic industries, steel.
We found very little evidence of real competition there and now we are examining this same problem
in another basic industry, automobile.
What happens to the automobile industry is our transcending importance to all of us because
one out of every seven persons in the United States depend either directly or indirectly
on the automobile industry or a livelihood.
Let me show you two charts which we have been studying in our hearing.
This chart shows the situation in the automobile industry with general motors as of the first
of this year having more than 50% of all of the automobiles making that net.
A forward about 25%, a Chrysler about 17%, and the American motors and student-backed
record making only about 3%.
Only really three industries in the automobile industry.
You will see by this chart that general motors has a very dominant position as a leader and
there is really very little competition in the farest place between the big three.
Now here is another chart that shows this position of general motors of the total value
of shipments and the transportation vehicles.
Take locomotive, for instance, they are just in automobiles, they are in a lot of other
things.
locomotive, almost 70%.
locomotives switching type about 50%.
Now these charts show the part of the problem that we find that is an unbalanced concentration
of economic power.
Whether this is good or bad for the country the committee has not yet said.
Our studies are still in their early stage.
But this we do know that the results as of now are not good.
For end industries we have studied production is down and way down.
This is certainly true of steel.
For only 55% of our steel capacity is being used.
It is true of automobile and of course this results in a great deal of unemployment.
We in the United States cannot maintain our place in the world here on this earth and
we cannot compete with the Soviets and trade and must be utilized our own productive genius
at 12 capacity.
We are not doing that when our basic industries are running at half-drawling.
What we have got to do is to push the throttle forward.
Thank you and goodbye and we will next week.
The ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, a proposal which I have previously discussed
with you on this program, got a fine push forward this week.
Last fall you will remember I attended the NATO Parliamentarians conference as a member
of the United States delegation.
The conference composed of representatives of parliament and congresses of all of the
NATO nations met in the NATO headquarters in Paris.
They honored me by electing me chairman of the political committee.
This political committee proposed a resolution which I feel is a long step forward in our
constant search for ways and means by which we may obtain a more durable method of assuring
peace.
The committee proposed a resolution recommending that the NATO governments bring about a conference
composed of leading representatives citizens of the various countries selected on a nonpartisan
basis and directed to convenes often as necessary.
In order to examine and to recommend how greater cooperation and unity of purpose within
the Atlantic community may be developed.
Now what is the need of such a conference and what might we hope that it would accomplish?
The need is evident every time that you pick up the paper to read and read of another
answer to it.
In NATO we have all agreed that the defense of one of us is important to the survival of
all of us.
Yet we frequently find occasions when our various nations are going along separate paths and
in the version direction.
Such an occasion was Suez crisis.
The Tunisian arms incident of last year.
The Hungarian revolution.
And just this week when French planes bombed the Tunisian border town.
An act which could have serious repercussions in the United Nations.
And in which unfortunately American planes were used.
We had a new example of this problem.
The problem therefore is to work out some method by which we could have some prior consultation
and consideration before these acts are committed.
Some method by which we can be sure that we are all going in the same political and economic
direction.
For without common purposes we will not be, we will not long be militarily our scientific
allies.
Now the governments have worked on this on a government-to-government basis for a long
time.
We members of parliament and Congresses have worked at it.
But I frankly don't think that we are going to be solved unless we bring about the best
minds of all of our nations among our citizens.
We can speak freely because they would not be officially representing their governments.
Also to bear in this really thoroughgoing study of this problem.
We would hope to accomplish the means by which unity of action might be achieved.
This week, Theodore Francis Green of Rhode Island, the Senate Chairman of the Senate Committee
on Foreign Relations, introduced a resolution in the Senate calling upon the President to
implement our resolution and to help bring about this conference.
I joined Senator Green in his resolution and he was also joined by Senator Solvenstole
Massachusetts in Javits of New York, both Republicans and by Senator Henry Jackson and
Washington and Democrat.
I am hopeful that with this display of important and bipartisan interests in the proposal which
are committed tariffs and which was unanimously approved there by the delegates of all of
the NATO nations that the conference will be called this year.
There is one other thing that I wanted to mention on this occasion.
All of us became have become concerned by the new evidence that all is not well with
our economy domestically.
In the face of a rise in January of 1,100,000 unemployed, the post-mester general announced
that post office modernization program to make work an employment.
And the President said that other things will be done if the picture doesn't change next
month.
I want to say that one of the best things the President could do in the far as I region
is concerned would be to really get behind the TVA self-financing bill and help pass it
in the House of Representatives.
Then we could start building steam plants and at no cost whatever to the federal government.
And in addition to the work of building these steam plants, we would have a continuing economic
spur to the economy through the years which comes from having adequate electric power.
Thank you and goodbye until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, in the present Congress as well as in several
past congresses, two of the most important issues before the American people has been the
effort to prevent the taking away of the regulation of the federal power commission of the producers
of natural gas.
If this regulation were taken away, they consumers would have to pay more and more for their natural
gas.
Also, we've had an issue for a long time of urban renewal trying to change the face
and eliminate the slums in some of our major cities.
This is a most important problem.
So it happens that in Tennessee we have had the leader among the mayors of the nation
on the right side of these two issues.
The man that I'm referring to is our guest today and we certainly are delighted to have
Mayor Ben West to the city of Nashville is our guest here today.
Thank you, Senator.
It's certainly nice to be here.
Mayor West was in town on official business and I asked him down.
Now the situation about the natural gas bill is that the Jack Porter, the Republican
National Committeeman in Texas wrote a letter in connection with raising funds for a public
and dinner which turned out to be very bad publicity and it made this aniquitous bill
maybe put off for some time.
But Mayor West has chairman last year of the American Municipal Association and has
put chairman along with Mayor Wagner of New York as the committee to oppose this natural
gas bill has done effective in human service.
Now will you tell us about the bill and what you think about it, what it would do to Tennessee
and what it is.
Senator, I think first I ought to say to you that the gas consumers in Nashville particularly
and all over the state of Tennessee are grateful to you for the great fight that you have made
against the Harris O'Hara bill which would eliminate from regulation the producers of
natural gas and of course when they are eliminated by any cost that is increased would just be
passed on down.
You might as well get control altogether for going to forget the control of the producers.
We're very grateful to you and to the entire Tennessee delegation.
The whole delegation is unanimous in opposition to the Harris O'Hara bill.
Mayor Wagner of New York and Richardson Delworth of Philadelphia and Frank Zidler of Milwaukee
and others from gas consuming areas.
We're all very grateful to you for looking out after our people.
Well, it's most important matter.
It would have resulted in millions of dollars increase in gas rates we think and heard our
section's valid.
We're grateful to you.
Well, all of our members of our delegation in the Senate and House have worked hard to
try to keep the bill but just because it may be put off this time there's no reason why
we should relinquish our efforts.
Correct.
Certainly correct.
While we have just a few minutes remaining, I want to ask you about the Urban Renewal
Program.
You've testified up here before committees.
You've been fighting for it as a chairman of the Mayor's delegation.
We know that you're lifting the face of Nashville so to speak for this great program.
How important is this to Nashville and Tennessee?
Senator, without Urban Renewal, our towns and cities are going to die.
It costs taxpayers a lot of money to maintain slums and they're beginning to realize
it.
Businessmen understand these cities and towns have to be renewed and this old rotten and decaying
area has to be dealt with.
And so we appreciate also your efforts in this respect to the towns and cities of Tennessee.
I have some figures here showing that for a five year period the needs of our towns and
cities in Tennessee amount to $53 million.
And this program is absolutely a must for municipal administration.
Well your testimony up here has made the program possible as you've effectively presented
it and I think this is one program that everybody's favorite of the field is entirely necessary.
In connection with that how many towns and cities are interested in the program in Tennessee
our time's about up just give us a well-in-number.
Well exactly all of the larger.
Well then we hear a lot from them.
Well I certainly do appreciate you being with us in the Mayor West and we hope you'll
come back again soon.
Thank you Senator Vermouth.